# Abstract

In our modern world, characterized by a hectic pace and ubiquitous technology integration,
the significance of health has transformed into a luxury. The COVID-19 pandemic further
highlighted the importance of well-being, as health concerns became a prevailing trend across
all age groups. The interplay between our fast-paced lifestyles and the advantages of
modernity has exposed numerous health risks, many of which are closely tied to the intricate
dynamics of our blood.

Of particular interest is blood coagulation, a critical physiological process that holds the
potential to unveil insights into various avenues of health. By monitoring and understanding
this process, crucial issues such as haemorrhage and thrombosis can be anticipated and
addressed promptly.

In 2020, WHO reported that around 39 million children under five were obese. Overweight
and obesity contribute to more deaths than underweight conditions globally. High BMI is
directly associated with increased risks of hypercoagulability, thrombosis, strokes, and heart
attacks. This has led to a rise in health consciousness, with even individuals under 40
experiencing a significant proportion of heart attacks.

Blood clotting tendencies also bear relevance in assessing liver damage, haemophilia,
perioperative complications such as the risk of haemorrhages, and vitamin K status, among
other areas of inquiry.

Our project aims to address the need for a portable, low-cost solution to monitor blood
coagulation, enabling individuals to gain preventive insights in various related domains.

We propose analyzing human blood using RC circuits and Electrochemical Impedance
Spectroscopy (EIS). EIS involves subjecting blood samples to controlled frequencies and
measuring impedance over time. By varying R and C values, representing different blood
conditions, we can observe distinct impedance patterns. EIS offers accuracy, requires smaller
blood samples, and enables portable monitoring. Our project will investigate, simulate,
analyze data, and implement an optimized solution aligning with these objectives.

With an extensive foundation of research, experiments, simulations, and unwavering
dedication, we embark on a journey to realize the implementation of our project and address
our problem statement to the best of our abilities. It is our sincere hope that the insights
gained, both from our successes and shortcomings, will contribute to the development of
robust solutions in the future.
